Refactor the branding documentation (#73)
owncloud/docs-client-branding: modules/ROOT/pages/android_app/publishing.adoc

= Publishing Your Branded Android App
:toc: right

> :description: This documentation guides you thru publishing your branded Android app.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
:description: This documentation guides you through publishing your branded Android app.
```

Do we want informal shortened words like "thru"

sudo apt install zipalign
----

> In case `zipalign` is not provided as installable package for your OS, you can download it from source via the https://developer.android.com/sdk/index.html[Android Software Development Kit]. It is a large download, but once you have downloaded it you can copy the `zipalign` binary to any computer and use it. Go to https://developer.android.com/sdk/index.html[Android Software Development Kit] and click the btn:[Download Android Studio] button.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If `zipalign` is not provided as an installable package for your OS, you can download it from source via the https://developer.android.com/sdk/index.html[Android Software Development Kit]. It is a large download, but once you have downloaded it you can copy the `zipalign` binary to any computer and use it. Go to https://developer.android.com/sdk/index.html[Android Software Development Kit] and click the btn:[Download Android Studio] button.
```

image::android_app/publishing/android_studio.png[Android Studio, width=450]

Download the appropriate *SDK Tools Only* package for your operating system.

image::android_app/publishing/android_sdk_tools_only_package.png[Android SDK Tools Only, width=450]

Unpack it and change to the unpacked directory, which is `android-sdk-linux` on Linux systems, `android-sdk-macosx` on Mac systems, and `android-sdk-windows` on Windows systems. There is one more step, and that is to install additional tools. Run this command from the unpacked directory:

[source,bash]
----
tools/android update sdk --no-ui
----

This will take some time, as it is a large download. When it’s finished you’ll find `zipalign` in the `build-tools` directory. For convenience, you could copy `zipalign` to your home folder or other location of your choice, and to any other computer without installing the whole Android SDK.

=== Digitally Signing Your App

After installing your signing tools, signing your app takes just a few steps. In these examples the name of the app, as supplied by ownBuilder, is `acmecloud_1.7.0-release-unsigned.apk`.

> To create your certificate copy the following command, replacing `acme-release-key.keystore` and `acme_key` with your own keystore name and alias, which can be anything you want. The keystore name and alias must both have a password, which can be same for both. Then enter your company information as you are prompted:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To create your certificate copy the following command, replacing `acme-release-key.keystore` and `acme_key` with your own keystore name and alias, which can be anything you want. The keystore name and alias must both have a password, which can be the same for both. Then enter your company information as you are prompted:
```

Again, this emits a lot of output, and when you see *Verification succesful* at the end you know it succeeded, and it is ready to distribute.

== Distributing via Email

> You can download your branded Android app from your account on {customer-owncloud-url}[customer.owncloud.com], and send it as an email attachment to your users. (This is not the optimal way to distribute it as it is over 2 megabytes in size.) When they open your email on their Android phone or tablet, they must first click the the download arrow (bottom right of the screenshot) to download your app.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can download your branded Android app from your account on {customer-owncloud-url}[customer.owncloud.com], and send it as an email attachment to your users. (This is not the optimal way to distribute it as it is over 2 megabytes in size.) When they open your email on their Android phone or tablet, they must first click the download arrow (bottom right of the screenshot) to download your app.
```

Google’s process for uploading apps is fairly streamlined, and the most time-consuming task is creating all the required graphics. After registering, you’ll see the welcome screen for the Google Dev Console. Click btn:[Publish an Android app on Google Play].

image::android_app/publishing/android_publish.png[Android App Publish, width=450]

This opens the menu:Add New Application[] screen. Click the btn:[Prepare Store Listing] button. Note that as you navigate the various screens, you can click the btn:[Save Draft] button to preserve your changes.

image::android_app/publishing/android_new_application.png[Android New Application, width=450]

On the next screen, enter your product description.

image::android_app/publishing/android_product_description.png[Android Product Description, width=450]

Then you’ll have to upload a batch of graphics in various sizes for the *Graphic Assets* section, like these images for a smartphone and seven-inch tablet. You are required to upload at least two images.

image::android_app/publishing/android_screenshots.png[Android Screenshots, width=450]

You must also upload a 512x512-pixel logo, and a 1024x500 banner.

> image::android_app/publishing/android_logo_and_banner.png[Android Screenshots, width=450]

Reviewer: Should the text say "Android Screenshots", or something different?

Author: fixed

image::android_app/publishing/android_upload.png[Android Upload, width=450]

Drag-and-drop, or browse to select your app.

image::android_app/publishing/android_drag_and_drop.png[Android Drag and Drop, width=450]

A successful upload looks like this:

image::android_app/publishing/android_upload_success.png[Android Upload Success, width=450]

Your app is not yet published, but only uploaded to your account. There is one more step to take before you can publish, and that is to go back to the menu:Pricing & Distribution[] page and fill out the *Consent* section.

image::android_app/publishing/android_consent.png[Android Consent, width=450]

Click the btn:[Save Draft] button, and if you followed all the required steps you should now see a btn:[Publish App] button.

image::android_app/publishing/android_publish_app.png[Android Publish App, width=450]

It will not be published immediately, but after review by Google, which usually takes just a few hours.

image::android_app/publishing/android_publish_pending .png[Android Publish Pending, width=450]

After it has been published, your store listing is updated as PUBLISHED, and it includes a link to your Play Store listing.

> image::android_app/publishing/android_published.png[Android Publishd, width=450]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
image::android_app/publishing/android_published.png[Android Published, width=450]
```
